README.md, before:

# Well Registry Management System

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/ACWI-SOGW/well_registry_management.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ACWI-SOGW/well_registry_management)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/ACWI-SOGW/well_registry_management/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/ACWI-SOGW/well_registry_management)
[![Codacy Badge](https://api.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/6af41d5963ee48c1bb9f8a83ea338b46)](https://www.codacy.com/gh/ACWI-SOGW/well_registry_management?utm_source=github.com&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_content=ACWI-SOGW/well_registry_management&amp;utm_campaign=Badge_Grade)


Application for management of groundwater monitoring locations.

## Local Environment Setup
A local development environment can be setup by running:

```bash
make env
```

## Development Server
To run the development server, create a `local_settings.py` file as a sibling of `settings.py`. Add a `SECRET_KEY` value
with some random stuff (e.g `SECRET_KEY = 'sjfio3u903RaggleFraggle'` and see "Environment Variables" section).

The Django local development can be run via:

```bash
make watch
```

Another means to run local is the manage.py from within the wellregistry path:

```bash
python -m manage runserver
```
Note that environment variable must be configured to connect to a postgres database.

To run tests locally:

```bash
python -m manage test
```


## Environment Variables

    This project has a private companion config project where environment variable
    files for each deployment tier are maintained. The values in the config files are
    applied to the docker container for each teir at deployment. 
    The following sub sections will describe the various variables used.

General

    DEBUG: boolean - true for debug level logging

Deployment

    These environment variables are required for the tier deployment.
    They are not used for local development.

        SECRET_KEY: AWS secret key
        ALLOWED_HOSTS: mapped URL
        CIDR_RANGES: IP ranges allowed to connect

Database (root)

    The DATABASE values are defined to connect to cloud RDS or local DB installation.
    These values are used by the initial Django migrations *only* to configure the application.

        DATABASE_NAME: posgres database name
        DATABASE_HOST: posgres host url 
            - use 'localhost' for local development database
            - use the actual tier database host URL for cloud deployment
        DATABASE_PORT: optional posgres port - if not specified then default is '5432' 
        DATABASE_USERNAME: postgres root user name
        DATABASE_PASSWORD: postgres root password

Database (app)

    The following should be set to initial values for a new database configuration.
    When setting up the database to run the initial migration scripts the values are
    flexible. They are arbitrarily configurable for local database development.
    However, once the database has been configured they are not aribitrary and must
    be the values used to configure that database. For example, if the applicaton
    database is new the it could be called 'well_registry' or 'ngwmn_registry' but 
    once the scripts have run to create that database, the values must remain unchanged.
    Continuing the example, if 'well_registry' is used for the database name then it
    must remain 'well_regisry' in order for the applicaiton to use it. The point is
    that these values are used for configuration and runtime after configuration.
    Some addition example values are given below. 

    The application database ensures that application data is not stored in the postgres 
    system database. It also enables multiple application to share a database instance.
        APP_DATABASE_NAME:     name for the applicaiton database within postgres
        APP_DB_OWNER_USERNAME: user name for the database owner
        APP_DB_OWNER_PASSWORD: database owner password

    The application schema ensure that applicaiton data is not stored in the default public
    schema. The configuration assigns this schema as the primary search_path.
        APP_SCHEMA_NAME:           name for the application schema
        APP_SCHEMA_OWNER_USERNAME: owner user name for the application schema
        APP_SCHEMA_OWNER_PASSWORD: schema owner password

    This connection will allow maitainance of all registry entries in support of user issues.
    It has less restricted table CRUD roles than the application user.
        APP_ADMIN_USERNAME: user name for the connection used by the registry administration
        APP_ADMIN_PASSWORD: administration login password

    This connecton is the standard or default applicaiton user connection.
    It has limited table CRUD roles.
        APP_CLIENT_USERNAME: user name for the connection used by the registry users
        APP_CLIENT_PASSWORD: user level login password

## Configuring Local Database

There is a sample batch script to configure a local postres instance on Windows.

    migration_test.bat

I simple translation to bash script will allow running it on linux.
It is included in the project more as an example documentation than a use case.  
The critical components of the batch script show an example of local environment variables.
It also shows the necessary order to run Django migrations.

    python -m manage migrate --database=postgres postgres
    python -m manage migrate registry 0000
    python -m manage migrate registry

Notice that the first scripts are run while connecting for the only time with the postgres user.
Subsequent migrations run while connected to the application database. The 0000 migration
must be run on its own because it sets the search_path to use the application schema. Subsequent
connections default to placing new objects (DDL) in the application schema properly.

Commit message:

revise settings doc that are Django (not AWS)

README.md, after:

# Well Registry Management System

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/ACWI-SOGW/well_registry_management.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ACWI-SOGW/well_registry_management)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/ACWI-SOGW/well_registry_management/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/ACWI-SOGW/well_registry_management)
[![Codacy Badge](https://api.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/6af41d5963ee48c1bb9f8a83ea338b46)](https://www.codacy.com/gh/ACWI-SOGW/well_registry_management?utm_source=github.com&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_content=ACWI-SOGW/well_registry_management&amp;utm_campaign=Badge_Grade)


Application for management of groundwater monitoring locations.

## Local Environment Setup
A local development environment can be setup by running:

```bash
make env
```

## Development Server
To run the development server, create a `local_settings.py` file as a sibling of `settings.py`. Add a `SECRET_KEY` value
with some random stuff (e.g `SECRET_KEY = 'sjfio3u903RaggleFraggle'` and see "Environment Variables" section).

The Django local development can be run via:

```bash
make watch
```

Another means to run local is the manage.py from within the wellregistry path:

```bash
python -m manage runserver
```
Note that environment variable must be configured to connect to a postgres database.

To run tests locally:

```bash
python -m manage test
```


## Environment Variables

    This project has a private companion config project where environment variable
    files for each deployment tier are maintained. The values in the config files are
    applied to the docker container for each teir at deployment. 
    The following sub sections will describe the various variables used.

General

    DEBUG: boolean - true for debug level logging

Django Deployment ([ALLOWED_HOSTS](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.0/ref/settings/#allowed-hosts), [SECRET_KEY](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.0/ref/settings/#std:setting-SECRET_KEY), [CIDR_RANGES](https://github.com/mozmeao/django-allow-cidr))

    These environment variables are required for the tier deployment.
    They are not used for local development.

        SECRET_KEY: Django cryptographic signing key
        ALLOWED_HOSTS: list of host domain names for this application to respond
        CIDR_RANGES: list of IP ranges allowed used in django-allow-cidr

Database (root)

    The DATABASE values are defined to connect to cloud RDS or local DB installation.
    These values are used by the initial Django migrations *only* to configure the application.

        DATABASE_NAME: posgres database name
        DATABASE_HOST: posgres host url 
            - use 'localhost' for local development database
            - use the actual tier database host URL for cloud deployment
        DATABASE_PORT: optional posgres port - if not specified then default is '5432' 
        DATABASE_USERNAME: postgres root user name
        DATABASE_PASSWORD: postgres root password

Database (app)

    The following should be set to initial values for a new database configuration.
    When setting up the database to run the initial migration scripts the values are
    flexible. They are arbitrarily configurable for local database development.
    However, once the database has been configured they are not aribitrary and must
    be the values used to configure that database. For example, if the applicaton
    database is new the it could be called 'well_registry' or 'ngwmn_registry' but 
    once the scripts have run to create that database, the values must remain unchanged.
    Continuing the example, if 'well_registry' is used for the database name then it
    must remain 'well_regisry' in order for the applicaiton to use it. The point is
    that these values are used for configuration and runtime after configuration.
    Some addition example values are given below. 

    The application database ensures that application data is not stored in the postgres 
    system database. It also enables multiple application to share a database instance.
        APP_DATABASE_NAME:     name for the applicaiton database within postgres
        APP_DB_OWNER_USERNAME: user name for the database owner
        APP_DB_OWNER_PASSWORD: database owner password

    The application schema ensure that applicaiton data is not stored in the default public
    schema. The configuration assigns this schema as the primary search_path.
        APP_SCHEMA_NAME:           name for the application schema
        APP_SCHEMA_OWNER_USERNAME: owner user name for the application schema
        APP_SCHEMA_OWNER_PASSWORD: schema owner password

    This connection will allow maitainance of all registry entries in support of user issues.
    It has less restricted table CRUD roles than the application user.
        APP_ADMIN_USERNAME: user name for the connection used by the registry administration
        APP_ADMIN_PASSWORD: administration login password

    This connecton is the standard or default applicaiton user connection.
    It has limited table CRUD roles.
        APP_CLIENT_USERNAME: user name for the connection used by the registry users
        APP_CLIENT_PASSWORD: user level login password

## Configuring Local Database

There is a sample batch script to configure a local postres instance on Windows.

    migration_test.bat

I simple translation to bash script will allow running it on linux.
It is included in the project more as an example documentation than a use case.  
The critical components of the batch script show an example of local environment variables.
It also shows the necessary order to run Django migrations.

    python -m manage migrate --database=postgres postgres
    python -m manage migrate registry 0000
    python -m manage migrate registry

Notice that the first scripts are run while connecting for the only time with the postgres user.
Subsequent migrations run while connected to the application database. The 0000 migration
must be run on its own because it sets the search_path to use the application schema. Subsequent
connections default to placing new objects (DDL) in the application schema properly.
